README.md, before:

# Table filters for Laravel 8

Package for  making Eloquent models filterable.

# Setup

## Composer

Pull this package in through Composer

```sh
composer require and48/table-filters
```
## Publish migrations

Publish the package migrations files to your application.

```sh
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="AND48\TableFilters\TableFiltersServiceProvider" --tag="migrations"
```

Run migrations.

```sh
php artisan migrate
```

## Publish configuration

Publish the package configuration file to your application.

```sh
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="AND48\TableFilters\TableFiltersServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

See configuration file [(`config/filters.php`)](https://github.com/AND48/table-filters/blob/master/config/config.php) yourself and make adjustments as you wish.

# Usage

Create filters for model.

```php
use AND48\TableFilters\Models\Filter;
...
User::addTableFilters([
    ['field' =>'id', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_NUMBER, 'caption' => 'ID'],
    ['field' =>'name', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_STRING, 'caption' => 'Name'],
    ['field' =>'birthday', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_DATE, 'caption' => 'Birthday'],
    ['field' =>'is_blocked', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_BOOLEAN, 'caption' => 'Is blocked'],
    ['field' =>'balance', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_NUMBER, 'caption' => 'Balance'],
    ['field' =>'status', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_ENUM, 'caption' => 'Status'],
    ['field' =>'parent_id', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_SOURCE, 'caption' => 'Parent user'],
]);
...
}
```
Use **TableFilterable** trait inside your *Eloquent* model(s).

Get your filters.
```php
$filters = User::tableFilterList(true, [
                'status' => ['new', 'verified', 'active', 'suspended']]);
```

Get source data.
```php
$filter = Filter::find($filter_id);
$source_data = $filter->sourceData($page, $search_query);
```

Load source data by route.
```php
route('filters.source_data', ['filter_id' => 1, 'query' => '*', 'page' => 2]);
```

Filtering model.
```php
$filters = [
    ['id' => 1, 'operator' => '!=', 'values' => [2, 3]],
    ['id' => 2, 'operator' => '~', 'values' => ['and', 'dy']],
    ['id' => 3, 'operator' => '>=', 'values' => ['1986-06-06']],
    ['id' => 4, 'operator' => '=', 'values' => [false]],
    ['id' => 6, 'operator' => '=', 'values' => ['new', 'verified']],
    ['id' => 7, 'operator' => '!=', 'values' => []],
];
$users = User::tableFilter($filters)->get();
```

Use it with client library
[`table-filters-client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/table-filters-client)

Commit message:

filter storage - response for delete method

README.md, after:

# Table filters for Laravel 8

Package for  making Eloquent models filterable.

# Setup

## Composer

Pull this package in through Composer

```sh
composer require and48/table-filters
```
## Publish migrations

Publish the package migrations files to your application.

```sh
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="AND48\TableFilters\TableFiltersServiceProvider" --tag="migrations"
```

Run migrations.

```sh
php artisan migrate
```

## Publish configuration

Publish the package configuration file to your application.

```sh
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="AND48\TableFilters\TableFiltersServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

See configuration file [(`config/filters.php`)](https://github.com/AND48/table-filters/blob/master/config/config.php) yourself and make adjustments as you wish.

# Usage

Create filters for model.

```php
use AND48\TableFilters\Models\Filter;
...
User::addTableFilters([
    ['field' =>'id', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_NUMBER, 'caption' => 'ID'],
    ['field' =>'name', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_STRING, 'caption' => 'Name'],
    ['field' =>'birthday', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_DATE, 'caption' => 'Birthday'],
    ['field' =>'is_blocked', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_BOOLEAN, 'caption' => 'Is blocked'],
    ['field' =>'balance', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_NUMBER, 'caption' => 'Balance'],
    ['field' =>'status', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_ENUM, 'caption' => 'Status'],
    ['field' =>'parent_id', 'type' => Filter::TYPE_SOURCE, 'caption' => 'Parent user'],
]);
...
}
```
Use **TableFilterable** trait inside your *Eloquent* model(s).

Get your filters.
```php
$filters = User::tableFilterList(true, [
                'status' => ['new', 'verified', 'active', 'suspended']]);
```

Get source data.
```php
$filter = Filter::find($filter_id);
$source_data = $filter->sourceData($page, $search_query);
```

Load source data by route.
```php
route('filters.source_data', ['filter_id' => 1, 'query' => '*', 'page' => 2]);
```

Filtering model.
```php
$filters = [
    ['id' => 1, 'operator' => '!=', 'values' => [2, 3]],
    ['id' => 2, 'operator' => '~', 'values' => ['and', 'dy']],
    ['id' => 3, 'operator' => '>=', 'values' => ['1986-06-06']],
    ['id' => 4, 'operator' => '=', 'values' => [false]],
    ['id' => 6, 'operator' => '=', 'values' => ['new', 'verified']],
    ['id' => 7, 'operator' => '!=', 'values' => []],
];
$users = User::tableFilter($filters)->get();
```

For save, update or delete filters to storage (db table), please use resource route **filters.storages**.

Use it with client library
[`table-filters-client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/table-filters-client)
